So let's go ahead and
jump back into the code.
As we can see here,
we have a lot going on right now.
And since we're talking about kind of
a new concept in regards to fetching async
data, let's go and
clean this up a bit, right?
So I'm gonna migrate this over
into a separate scratchpad.
And so instead of components, I'm going
to just create a scratchpad.vue file and
we're just gonna migrate
everything from App.vue over.
And that way you have
that as reference for
later on if you wanna see
exactly what happened.
So clean this up and keep this
a standard New, basically a New App.
Great, and I'll go ahead and
commit that to the branch.
Let's see, refactor move code
to scratchpad, all right?
Great, all right, so the question here is,
the data we've been working with so far,
if we take a look at scratchpad,
everything is something that
we've defined ourselves.
And we're assuming basically that we
always have full control of the data.
And if that were really the case for
front end development,
I think it allows would be a lot easier.
But the reality is we have to fetch
data from the backend a lot of times and
we got to figure out
how to deal with that.
So we've we take the tools
that we have right now and
think about how we might do that.
Let's go ahead and use the Pokeapi,
which is one of my favorites when it
comes to working with sample data,
because I think Pokemon was a fun
thing for me growing up as a kid.
And so basically, this is a pretty
impressive database in terms of being able
to fetch things about individual Pokemon,
fetch it by region, it's darn impressive.
So, the URL we're gonna be using,
I'm gonna go ahead and
add a comment up here is,
this pokeapi.com.
And you notice the main thing is that
it just fetches the Pokemon, and
it limited to the first 151.
So in other words,
the original 151 Pokemon.
So our first goal here is to say, okay,
how do we fetch that data down from
the back end and
actually render it onto our page?
Well, first thing first, let's go and
set up our app real quick.
We'll export default and object.
And for our reactive data property, let's
go ahead and just have a Pokedex array.
And then again,
let me actually add some items in here so
we can actually see it when
we show it on the page.
Let's go ahead and show that real quick to
make sure everything's wired up correctly.
And there we go our array's showing up.
The next thing we wanna do is
add some sort of method, right?
Because we need to actually call this
thing, so you might think okay so
we have a method called fetchPokemon and
it will use the fetch API and
then we'll go ahead and
grab this URL up here.
Oops, there we go.
And then what we need to do though is
that ,oftentimes when you fetch data from
the backend,
you need to actually JSON a file.
In other words,
you need to convert it to JSON, so
you can actually parse it
correctly on the frontend.
And so the way you do that is you take
the response that you're given, and
you do response.json.
And so what we wanna do though is,
we don't only want to fetch this,
we want actually assign
this to our Pokedex right?
So we're gonna do this.pokedex=fetch.
But we're not quite done, because what?
Fetch is an async operation, and
right now everything we're writing
is in a synchronous operation.
So in other words here, what we got to do
is we got to say, hey, we have to wait for
fetch to finish before we do this thing.
And since we need to await the thing,
we need to actually make sure we tell Vue,
hey, by the way,
this is an async function.
This is gonna happen asynchronously.
Great, we have our method and so, all
right, we wanna fetch the thing, right?
So we have a button and
when we click the button this is
when we wanna run that fetchPokemon.
So fetchPokemon like that.
Great, let's see what happens now.
If we click, hey, everything's there,
just as we expect, this is exciting.
But if we think about the real world
scenario, while there are cases where
you'll be running async functions
on specific user interactions,
the reality is a lot of times
when someone's loading a page,
that's probably when you're actually
gonna be wanting to fetch that data.
And more importantly, you want to
fetch it at a specific timeframe.
And so this is where the concept of
lifecycle hooks comes into play,
when we're talking about
frontend frameworks.
And I think most of them do have them.
So, let's take a look at the diagram for
lifecycle hooks for vue.
And we're gonna take a look at
the one directly on the docs,
because I want you all to be able to
kind of get familiar with the docs.
Because Vue has an entire team dedicated
to trying to make sure that the docs
are as top notch as they can.
And that basically this
information is free and
available to you whenever it's time for
you to dive into these problems.
And so if you take a look at here,
here we can see an actual diagram
of how the lifecycle works.
And so you can see the Vue what it starts
to do is the render kicks it off, and
then it runs a setup lifecycle hook,
which again we'll talk more about later.
But you can see that what it's doing is,
it's going through and
at each of these steps where you
see the rounded outlined rectangle.
So we have setup before created,
before mount.
All of these are different points
inside of the lifecycle of a component.
And what that mean is, you can actually
basically interject different code,
depending on where you need it to run.
So for example,
you see here that what is it doing?
First it starts to encounters a component,
it starts to initialize the options API,
and then starts to do some checks,
basically, right?
And then it starts to
render the component.
It'll actually mount the thing
to the actual window.
Basically, you start to
actually see the thing.
And then finally,
if you're deleting something,
it will unmount the thing from the DOM.
And so to be clear,
I do not expect any of you to understand,
the effect of what's happening here.
But suffice to know that you can refer
to this at any point in the future when
you're trying to get a little bit more
nuanced about where you want your
code to run.
For the purposes of our exercise though,
we have to think about it like this if we
wait for the component to mount before we
actually start running the code to fetch,
we know that asynchronous
calls can take a while.
And what we wanna do is try to improve our
user experience by ensuring that users get
that data as quickly as possible.
Which means what?
We wanna actually try to initiate that
fetch before the component even renders to
the screen.
That way you call it, we try to time it so
that by the time the component
hits the screen,
you're hoping that the async data
basically has hopefully finished by then.
And so if we take a look at where that is,
basically the way to think of it in your
head at this point is the mounted
lifecycle hook is when it's basically
showing up on the screen,
that's the way to think about it.
And so in other words,
you have the ability to say beforeMount,
there's one right here.
But then there's also a couple of
steps happening before beforeMount.
So actually we even have the created
lifecycle hook and the beforeCreate.
But there's a key thing that
you'll notice here though,
is that with beforeCreate This is
happening before the Options API.
And so what does that mean?
I think it'll be easier if I show
you this inside of the code.
So let me go ahead and bump this over.
Okay, so
if you take a look at this right now,
we mentioned yesterday that passing
an object in order to define how our
component is working is
called the Options API.
Cuz we see here there are data,
there are methods.
And so similarly, we have the ability
to call lifecycle hooks on there.
So we have, what do we see earlier
beforeCreate was one of them.
And so beforeCreate can be
a function that we run.
So all I'm gonna do here is
I'm gonna log beforeCreate and
then we're gonna try to log this.pokedex.
And then we're gonna log
the created lifecycle hook.
So this is basically how you're going to
call the individual lifecycle hooks is by
basically the name right here, that we
see here this is a little small right now
because of the mobile responsive.
And then just basically
calling it as a function, and
that's how you actually reference it.
So when created now we'll do a log create.
And then design this is
when it's been created.
And this time we'll log this.pokedex.
Okay, what's gonna happen here?
Well, if we take a look inside of our
dev tools, you'll notice something here.
Is that before create gets logged,
but then this.pokedex does not exist.
However, then once created does, you'll
see .pokedex does exist and inside of this
proxy here, you'll see the inside of
the target, which you wanna open up.
That's where you'll see the actual
value of what's happening.
And so we think about it in another way if
we rearrange this for our mental model.
Before create is actually happening,
all this stuff below here even exists.
And so if that's the case, that means
that when you're using the options API,
beforeCreate is probably not actually the
best place to be running an asynchronous
function, because at this point,
nothing exists.
So what we wanna make sure we do then, is
to basically say when it's been created,
remember crate is not the same as mounted.
There's a bunch of stuff happening before
it's actually mounted to the page.
Once it's been creative,
this is where we're gonna say,
let's kick off our function.
So we can do is we can
then go this.fetchPokemon.
Now we save this though, you'll see, boom.
All of a sudden without clicking anything,
it did exactly what we wanted to.
Which is, the user hit the page, the vue
did its thing to go fetch the data,
it immediately showed up on the screen.
Okay, How do people feel about
those concepts, that makes sense?
Question.
>> Are those hooks promise aware if
you were to return the promise to
this fetchPokemon, would it pause
continuation until it returned?
>> So your question here is around
whether the lifecycle hooks are aware?
Could you actually could you
returned a promise instead?
>> Yes, would the created not
continue until the promise resolves.
If you want to do for some reason not but
until the promise is fully resolved?
>> Before you actually move on
to the next hook, basically.
>> Yeah.
>> So in this regard you don't want so
run it.
I don't see why that won't be possible.
Vue usually has ways for
you to break those things apart so
that you can basically stop it.
And so to be clear this is a little
bit beyond the scope of the intro.
So if this goes a little beyond what
your current knowledge, don't worry.
But basically, if you've heard of things
like nextTick inside of code bases,
that's where people are manually
initiating different stages to ensure that
either different frames
are being skipped or moved on.
And so just know that if you're trying to
intentionally stop it at the lifecycle,
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> You probably have to dig into it just
to figure out how that will work.
Cuz normally, Vue as you can see,
it tries to optimize it.
Cuz normally you might
even expect at this point,
let me go back to the code, and close up.
this.fetchPokemon is
an asynchronous function.
And so here's the thing, if we were
to call the fetch directly here,
and we did an await, okay, So
let me do this real quick.
And then let's just const response= this,
and that says log response, okay?
So, all right, you'll see already
that vue is yelling at me because if
you actually manually define it in a way
keyword inside of a lifecycle hook,
it will ask that you actually
defined the async on that directly.
However since we're not doing that
since we actually have the async
already defined on the function,
this is why this code still works.
But otherwise to your question, and yeah,
I would just dive further in into how to
get it to pause, but otherwise you
should be able to do what you want.
So when it comes to lifecycle hooks,
basically I would say the ones to
really know about are created.
Because that's usually where you're
gonna be running your async functions.
And then if you really have something
that you really want to happen right when
the component is mounted,
then I've seen a lot of beforeMount or
mounted used for those scenarios.
We might want to time either some sort
of animation or that kind of thing.
But otherwise, just know that create
is kind of gonna be your bread and
butter when using the Options API for
doing asynchronous calls.
Okay, and so the other thing that
I wanna cover too, let's go and
actually commit this real quick,
To status feature,
pokedex fetch api call, right?.
Okay, so if we're taking a look at
the code that we have right now,
you'll notice that if you check that 09-
begin branch you'll notice there's a new
project in here called c'est-la-vue.
And so for those not familiar with
the friend c'est-la-vue just mean
that it's life.
This is life and so this is vue
>> So
inside of here, we actually do
have a little bit happening here.
So I do wanna walk through this
with you because going forward for
the rest of the day, I will try to sort
of centralize the exercises around
cest-la-vue in order to just provide
some context and basically give you
the experience of walking into a project
that already had some call it legacy code.
And that way you feel
you're working with stuff.
But that said, I wanna emphasize, if you
feel more comfortable just working with
your TV show form app to apply these
concepts, please feel free to do so.
I just wanted to provide different
contexts to allow you that
practice of seeing what it's like
when working with code bases.
So let's go and switch over in here
real quick into c'est-la-vue and
let's go ahead and run that.
npm run dev, great.
And now if we open up here,
It's on seven for
now, that's right, because the other
one's running, makes sense.
Okay, here we go.
We have c'est-la-vue.
It's a very fairly simple app, but
it has a little bit of styling this time.
So not just raw HTML and
whatever the browser provides.
And we have a home and loginPage,
or at least what appears to be.
If we take a look at our app.vue,
you'll notice that there
are two components that
are already pre-built for you.
There's a homepage and a login page.
You'll notice though that at this
point there still is no, actually,
you wouldn't notice, okay.
Actually, I can show you how
you wouldn't notice this.
If you look inside the package.json,
you'll see there's still
no router library.
So there's no like paths being changed or
anything right now.
What we're doing here is that traditional
single page application model,
which is every JavaScript trying to manage
everything, and so it's routed there.
And so what's actually happening here,
if you have this reactive data that's
tracking which the state of
the current page quote unquote.
And so here we have two methods that
assign the current page to home or login.
And then down here,
we have the ability to say, okay, well,
if the current page is home,
show this component.
If current page is login, or
actually in this case it's an else.
But as you can see that's like your basic
check to see what we're swapping between.